what is docker . 

  -  docker is an opem- sourse platform that allow you t o automate the deployment and management of application within lightwheight isolated software containers.
     



Advantage od using docker : - ]

  
  Potability : - docker cantainer can run on nay system ensuring consist behaviour acroos diffrent enviroments . it work in any system on docker is used in ther emachine . 

  Isolation : - container provide isolation preventing inrterface between applicaton and dependencies . 

  Efficeiency : - docker caontainer are lightwheight and start quickely optimizing resource utilization . 

  Scalability : - Docker simplifiy scalling by easily replication and distributing container . 

  Versioning and Rollback : - enable vasrsionong and rolback of container application  . you can make multiple conatiner with one images . 

  Docker MAnagement : Docker package with theire dependencies avoiding conflicts . 

  Collobaration : - docker facilated sharing and colloboratio among developrs and teams . 



whta is dockerfiles . : - 


   a docker file is atext file caontain instruction on how to buid a docker images . 

   it specifies the base image the application code dependency and other confihurwations needed to create a runnable images .

   how docker made , for which stack for made ex - python , ubuntu , mysql , we can write thin things in this file . 



what is docker images . 

   An image is a lightweight standalone executables software package can include everything needed to run an application include the coderuntime system tool library and settings 

  
  Docker Docker images are created from a base image and can be customized and layered with additional components. 

 

Docker conatiners .

  Container are isolated and movement dead in encapsulate an application its dependency in home library framework and other software components. 

  Each container man has an isolated process on the host machine has its own file system networking and resources . 
  
  You can create multiple container with one docker image.


Docker compose . 

  
  . docker compose is a tool for defining the managing multi - container applications .

  It's allow you to define a multi container setup in YAML file specifying the container their configuration and how they communicate with each other 

 YAML file we can speciy which in muliconatiner file which is thing we use in it . 

  Docker compose simplifies the process of running complex application with multiple interconnected container. 



Container REgistry .

  Contaier  registry is a centralized repository for restoring and sharing container images .

  allow you to manage and distribute containerized application ensuring secure access versioning and image integrity 

 
  example : - 

1 - DockerHUb  (Most Poppular )
2 - amazone Elastic Container Registery ECR 
3 - google container Registry GCR 
4 - Azur Conatiner Registery ACR 
5 - github container REgistry GHCR
6 - gitlab Conatiner REgistery . 
 

What is docker Conatiner REgistery : ---


   A Docker Registry is a central repository that is stored Docker image the most commonly used registry is Docker hub which is public registry where you can find a wide variety of prebuilt Docker images .

same as github you yse image sfrom there and also use user uploded images . you can use to share you docker images . 


What is Base images : - 

   A pace image referred to the initial starting point for building a Docker image it served as the foundation or template on which you can add or customize additional layer to create your specific application images.

  a base  images typically a pre built and reusable that a image that contain a specific software stack . 

 Let's provide the necessary runtime and envovernment and library for running application with Docker container. 


  Example you might use a base image that include a lightweight Linux distribution such as Alpine Linux or Ubuntu as the foundation for your application .


 Regularly update your base image and applying security patches it also recommends to ensure the overall security of your counterise application 





DOCKERFILE ------>            DOCKERIMAGE -----------> CANTAINER 1 , 2 , 3 MANY MORE .







docker container vs Virtual machine .

   Docker container are lightweight share the host OS Kernel start quickly and have efficient resource usages . 

   Virtula machine are More isolated requires separate os take longer to start and have direct hardware access. 


  











my views +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++  



most people say if you use docker to container to set up  your project , so there is no clash between versions . 

supose you have install a paticular operation system and you want to work on mysql 5 or also in another project you need . so you can work 

easily by setting up docker conatiner .

ex-2 

  supose your one project work on python 2 , and another in python 3 ,. rather tha install 2 python . you can just setup and work on it . 

  within docker this alll install in  you operating system .  due to these the project need pytohn 2 they use that version and those who run on pytohn 3 thae use tat things .


and if you share the project in anoy\ther system  . who have install docker . in there system .



because docker container work can make packages and all dependency in ther container . 




